docs/architecture.md, before:

# Mutagen Architecture

In `mutagen`, there is a difference between of `mutators` and `mutations`.

1. Mutators are inserted at compile-time by the attribute `#[mutate]`
2. Mutations are introduced at run-time by activating mutators

## Mutators

Mutators are hooks inside the source code can be activated to change the behavior, they do not change the behavior of the code, unless activated. Each mutator is responsible for a single piece in the original code and can be activated for different mutations.

### Procedural Macro `#[mutate]`

The attribute `#[mutate]` is a procedural macro that inserts into the program by transforming the source code on the AST-level.

Known patterns of code (e.g. arithmetic operations, boolean logic, loops, ...) get replaced by mutators that have the same behavior as the original code but have the ability to introduce specified mutations at run-time when activated.

The compiled test suite contains all mutators.

### Transformer

A transformer is a parts of the procedural macro that can insert one kind of mutator into the source code. A single transformer is responsible for inserting one type of mutator into the code. All transformer implement the trait `MutagenTransformer`.

## Mutations

A mutation occurs when a mutator is activated for a single run of the test suite. By default no mutator is active and calling `cargo test` should run all tests successfully.

A mutator can be activated by setting the environment variable `MUTATION_ID` to a positive number for a single test suite run (e.g. `MUTATION_COUNT=1 cargo test`). Note that the test suite is not recompiled for each call of `cargo test` if the source code was not changed.

If all tests pass despite the mutation, the mutant survives. Otherwise, the mutant is "killed".

### Runtime Configuration

The library `mutagen` defines a type `MutagenRuntimeConfig`, which contains the `mutation_id` for the current execution of the test suite. The global default config can be queried using the provided function `MutagenRuntimeConfig::get_default()`. Using this method, the `MUTATION_ID` environment variable is quried for the `mutation_id` to use.

The call to `MutagenRuntimeConfig::get_default()` is already inserted into the source code by the `#[mutate]` attribute.

## Optimistic Mutations

A standard mutation represents a change in the source code such that the changed source code still successfully compiles. A mutation is *optimistic* if the corresponding changed code does not compile when some type-level restrictions are not met.

Since `mutagen` only compiles the test code only once and the procedural macro has no information for the types, mutators with optimistic mutations have to be inserted without checking if type-level assumptions hold.

If the assumptions on the type are not fulfilled, the mutator panics in order to fail the test suite, since it is not desirable to count such mutants towards the survivors as they do not represent a valid alteration of the source code. To implement this behavior, `rustc`'s unstable feature `specialization` is used.

Below, there are some examples of optimistic mutators and their type-level assumptions.

### Mutations on arithmetic

Rust's type system allows to implement a custom implementation for the operators `+` and `-`. In general, if one operator is implemented, the other might not be implemented. However in many contexts, both operators are indeed defined and replacing one by the other would lead to a bug without producing compiler errors.

### Mutations on defaults

Many types implement the `Default` trait. For those who do, replacing any expression with its default leads to correctly compiling code.

Commit message:

implement customization of `#[mutate]` and test isolation

docs/architecture.md, after:

# Mutagen Architecture

In `mutagen`, there is a difference between of `mutators` and `mutations`.

1. Mutators are inserted at compile-time by the attribute `#[mutate]`
2. Mutations are introduced at run-time by activating mutators

## Mutators

Mutators are hooks inside the source code can be activated to change the behavior, they do not change the behavior of the code, unless activated. Each mutator is responsible for a single piece in the original code and can be activated for different mutations.

### Procedural Macro `#[mutate]`

The attribute `#[mutate]` is a procedural macro that inserts into the program by transforming the source code on the AST-level.

Known patterns of code (e.g. arithmetic operations, boolean logic, loops, ...) get replaced by mutators that have the same behavior as the original code but have the ability to introduce specified mutations at run-time when activated.

The compiled test suite contains all mutators.

### Transformer

A transformer is a parts of the procedural macro that can insert one kind of mutator into the source code. A single transformer is responsible for inserting one type of mutator into the code. All transformer implement the trait `MutagenTransformer`.

Currently, each transformer is unable to detect if code has been generated by a transformer that run before. To eliminate mutations of code inserted by mutators, the order of the transformers is defined in the `mutate` macro. The current order can be seen in the overview-table of mutators.

It may be necessary in the future to be able to detect which code is generated by `mutagen` and should not be altered.

## Mutations

A mutation occurs when a mutator is activated for a single run of the test suite. By default no mutator is active and calling `cargo test` should run all tests successfully.

A mutator can be activated by setting the environment variable `MUTATION_ID` to a positive number for a single test suite run (e.g. `MUTATION_COUNT=1 cargo test`). Note that the test suite is not recompiled for each call of `cargo test` if the source code was not changed.

If all tests pass despite the mutation, the mutant survives. Otherwise, the mutant is "killed".

### Runtime Configuration

The library `mutagen` defines a type `MutagenRuntimeConfig`, which contains the `mutation_id` for the current execution of the test suite. The global default config can be queried using the provided function `MutagenRuntimeConfig::get_default()`. Using this method, the `MUTATION_ID` environment variable is quried for the `mutation_id` to use.

The call to `MutagenRuntimeConfig::get_default()` is already inserted into the source code by the `#[mutate]` attribute.

## Optimistic Mutations

A standard mutation represents a change in the source code such that the changed source code still successfully compiles. A mutation is *optimistic* if the corresponding changed code does not compile when some type-level restrictions are not met.

Since `mutagen` only compiles the test code only once and the procedural macro has no information for the types, mutators with optimistic mutations have to be inserted without checking if type-level assumptions hold.

If the assumptions on the type are not fulfilled, the mutator panics in order to fail the test suite, since it is not desirable to count such mutants towards the survivors as they do not represent a valid alteration of the source code. To implement this behavior, `rustc`'s unstable feature `specialization` is used.

Below, there are some examples of optimistic mutators and their type-level assumptions.

### Mutations on arithmetic

Rust's type system allows to implement a custom implementation for the operators `+` and `-`. In general, if one operator is implemented, the other might not be implemented. However in many contexts, both operators are indeed defined and replacing one by the other would lead to a bug without producing compiler errors.

### Mutations on defaults

Many types implement the `Default` trait. For those who do, replacing any expression with its default leads to correctly compiling code.
